[proposal] New workload rollout model support (#92)
crossplane/oam-kubernetes-runtime: design/workload-rollout-model.md

          name: web
  updateStrategy:
    partition: 2
    type: RollingUpdate
```

One new pod with new label will created while two old ones will keep there.

```yaml
$ kubectl get pods -o yaml
apiVersion: v1
items:
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: Pod
  metadata:
    labels:
      app: nginx
      controller-revision-hash: frontend-9xs43xs1x
      statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name: frontend-0
    name: frontend-0
    namespace: default
...
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: Pod
  metadata:
    labels:
      app: nginx
      controller-revision-hash: frontend-8d6c8c46f
      statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name: frontend-1
    name: frontend-1
    namespace: default
...
- apiVersion: v1
  kind: Pod
  metadata:
    labels:
      app: nginx
      controller-revision-hash: frontend-8d6c8c46f
      statefulset.kubernetes.io/pod-name: frontend-2
    name: frontend-2
    namespace: default
...
```

On the other side, traffic trait should recognize the label.

For example, traffic trait can specify the label name and detect whether there're different labels exist.

```yaml
apiVersion: extend.oam.dev/v1alpha2
kind: Traffic
spec:
  revisionLabel: "controller-revision-hash"
``` 
 

> If different labels detected, Traffic Trait should create two service/ingress pointing to different revision labels and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If different labels are detected, Traffic Trait could create two service/ingress pointing to different revision labels and
```

You can refer to [the blue-green workflow](./one-pager-component-mutable-and-versioning.md#example-a-blue-green-workflow)
to understand it better. But that's not enough.

In kubernetes ecosystem, we usually have two categories of rollout model.

1. Workload can rollout by itself: [StatefulSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) is a typical
example in this category. When there's a version upgrade, statefulset will directly upgrade pod one by one and allow us to control by the field `partition`.
2. Workload can't rollout by itself: [ReplicaSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/) is a typical example in this model.
Replica itself don't have rollout feature itself, by we can use it as under layer and build rollout feature by creating two or more replicasets like [Deployment](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/).

OAM component versioning mechanism has good support for the second category, we regard the workload itself can't rollout, and let
rollout trait to do it. In this case, if we have a rollout trait which has `revisionEnaled` to be true, oam-runtime will

> create new workload instance with the name to be revisionName. **The revision information passed from oam-runtime to rollout trait from workload name**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create new workload instance with the name to be revisionName. **The workload revision information is then passed from oam-runtime to the rollout trait**.
```

With the revision information, `traffic` trait can route different percent of traffic by specified revisionName.

> But in the first category, oam-runtime directly update the workload with the revision information missed. The drawback is we have

Reviewer: Can you give an example here?

no way to integrate with traits like `traffic` trait.

## Goals

Our goal is to make sure all kinds of workload will not miss revision information from oam runtime.

## Proposal

The overall idea is to mark those workloads which can rollout by self. Use StatefulSet as example, add `revisionMark` field
in `WorkloadDefinition`.

```yaml
apiVersion: core.oam.dev/v1alpha2
kind: WorkloadDefinition
metadata:
  name: statefulsets.apps
spec:
  revisionMark: "spec.template.metadata.labels.oam-revision"
  definitionRef:
    name: statefulsets.apps
```

Then oam-runtime will mark revision name to the field specified in revisionMark like below:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: StatefulSet
metadata:
  name: frontend
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: nginx
  serviceName: "nginx"
  replica: 10
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: nginx
        oam-revision: frontend-c8bb659c5
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: nginx
        image: k8s.gcr.io/nginx-slim:0.8
        ports:
        - containerPort: 80
          name: web
  updateStrategy:
    partition: 7
    type: RollingUpdate
```

> For StatefulSet, the old and new version will both exist and with different `oam-revision` label.

Reviewer: Can you expand the example to have both the old and new version?
